>> Jon Kuperman: So
getting a little bit further into ARIA,
we've talked about this a little bit, kind
of showing some of the ARIA labels and
the ARIA roles and things like that.
But ARIA is a specification in and
of itself and it's quite a robust API.
So it offers a lot of things that
can provide a ton of usefulness to
interactive and robust applications.
And we'll get into some
kind of cooler examples of
using ARIA to provide what I would say
are exceptional accessible experiences.
So just to review,
the difference between ARIA and
WCAG is that WCAG sets the standard
saying things need sufficient colors,
things need to be keyboard accessible,
things need to be logical and
way ARIA provides tools and
techniques to meet those standards.
So they say, hey, we'll give you ARIA
labeledby, we'll give you described by,
we'll give you these roles and
these regions and things like that.
So there are two specifications.
One says how your app needs to work and
the other provides a set of tools and
techniques to get it working that way.
So there are complementary
standards there, but
ARIA is where we will look for HTML
properties or some JavaScript APIs, or
the tools that we'll actually
need to get our job done here.
So a specific example,
WCAG specifies that text and
interactive elements need to
have sufficient color contrast.
So in order to be compliant, your text and
your interactive elements need
to have some kind of difference.
So WAI-ARIA doesn't
address color contrast,
but it does give you things like
ARIA value now value min, valuemax,
things that you can use to help screen
readers convey interactive robust things.
It's a bit of a subtle line to draw, but
I think ARIA specifically covers it keeps
using the word robust in the spec, but
more advanced applications with more
advanced use cases, tools that would not
be sufficiently covered just by having
a static website with appropriate
colors and things like that.
So yeah, complex components,
that's another good way of viewing it.
Often ARIA comes in to help where
simple HTML cannot do things.
So it's not so
much a replacement for anything.
It's like additive APIs on top of HTML
to help you meet these WCAG standards.
So earlier we learned about the label tag
and we saw all sorts of different ways
that you can use labels, the implicit
labels or the specific labels with IDs and
how they can be used to label
certain form elements and
help screen reader users understand what
it is that they're interacting with.
We also talked back then about
how labels had a limitation
of only being able to be
applied to labelable elements.
And we learned that we can use ARIA for
non labelable elements.
So in general, the ARIA spec provides
us with some really cool tools for
labeling and describing elements.
And those tools are aria-label,
aria-labeledby and aria-described by.
So let's take a little look into these.
So we've got labeledby and describedby,
which I find often trip some people up
when they're first getting started.
So the label is essential information
about the object, like what it is.
Basically what it is,
it is a name field, a name text field.
The description is there
to provide supplemental or
extended information that users might
need for whatever they're working on.
So in this example we can see that
the label is quantity, right?
That first line there, label quantity.
So when they get to the field
it'll say text field, quantity.
And the description is what
the user's kind of supposed to do.
And so it's like enter the desired
quantity 1 through 10, or
maybe it would be, how many of these
headphones would you like to purchase?
Something that's supplemental
that's not absolutely vital for
how to enter information on the field, but
is really nice to have describing what
action you expect the user to take.
Does this kind of example help,
kind of, okay, great.
And then in order that they will be read,
it will be the label and
then the description
will be read afterwards.
So just kind of thinking about how
the screen reader will handle it.